# team-bicycle
Repository for Spring 2019 CS498 group project

Description:

The powercycle application relies on the dependencies located in the setup.py script.
The MANIFEST.in file describes the directory structure and non python files needed for operation.

Instructions for running the GUI on Current system:

1. Open a terminal from the Raspbian Desktop

2. Change to the program directory by inputing into the terminal
   "cd Documents/Python/power-cycle/powercycle"

3. Run the program with the below command
   "python3 GUI.py"
   wait a few seconds and the GUI will open

Installation Instructions:

The program can be installed by cloning the GIT repository located at 
https://github.com/nep67/power-cycle into a directory of your choosing.

Running setup.py after installation should install the dependencies and 
program structure needed for operation. If not all dependencies are 
installed follow the directions in the terminal to install the remaining 
needed dependencies.

To run setup.py input the following command into the terminal after installation:

"cd path/to/installation"
"python3 setup.py sdist"

Alternatively, Running setup.py also creates a tar.gz file which is located in the 
"dist" directory that when unpacked will install the program. The tar file can be transferred
between computers and moved to the chosen installation directory.
Use the following command to unpack the tar file.

"sudo tar -xvzf power-cycle-1.0.tar.gz"

To create the database the innit_db.py script must be ran after each new installation. 
This only needs to be done once. After a fresh install change directories in the 
terminal to the "powercycle" directory where the init_db.py script is located. Run 
the script in this location by typing into the terminal the following command:

"python3 init_db.py"

To run the program when installed from the git repository open a terminal from
the raspbian desktop and change to the installation directory.
1. "cd <install directory>"
2. "python3 GUI.py"

About the shell_scripts directory:

The file named startLO located in the shell_scripts directory needs to be placed in 
usr/local/bin. Do this after installing the program or the libreoffice functionaliy
will not work.

Move the file by using the following command:
"sudo mv <path/to/shell_scripts/startLO usr/local/bin"
   
About the arduino directory:

The arduino is only designed to work with one program. In order to use the calibrate 
functionality the calibrate_edge_detection.ino file in this directory must be loaded
manually onto the arudino using the arduino IDE. This can be done on any computer that
has the IDE installed. A suggestion is to install the IDE on a windows computer and just
plug the arduino into the windows computer using the USB port to transfer the files. After 
calibration the power_edge_dectection.ino file must be uploaded to the arduino to resume
regular use. Instructions for installing and using IDE can be found here:
https://www.arduino.cc/en/Guide/Windows

About libreoffice:

The raspberry pi comes with libreoffice calc pre-installed. This is the spreadsheet software
used in this project. The conversion from a libreoffice file back into an excel file changes
the power/torques graph by removing the lines. Because of this it is suggested to view all 
spreadsheet files generated by the system in libreoffice calc. You can install libreoffice for
free on any windows computer by following this link:
https://www.libreoffice.org/download/download/
